Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

Ans:-
Development tools:-Tools & utilities that will develop, debug, execute and document programs written in programming language.
Runtime environment:-It's an implementation of java runtime environment for use by the JDK. The JRE includes a java virtual machine, class libraries and other files that supports the execution program.
Additional libraries:- additional class libraries and support files required by the development tools.
Java DB:- Java DB oracle's distributions of Apache derby relational database 
C header files:-Header files that support native-code Programming using the java native interface,the JVM tool interface and other functionality of the java platform.
Score code:-
Java FX tools:-


What is IDE?
 Ans:- An integrated development environment (IDE) is a programming environment that has been packaged as an application program,typically consisting of a code editor,a compiler,a debugger, and a graphical user interface builder.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?

 Ans:- 
       Eclipse
       IntelliJ
       NetBeans 

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans:-   Code -(.java source file)-> Compile -(.class bite code file)-> Interpret -(0.1.2)

what is class?
Ans:-  A class is a blueprint from which individual objects are created

What is object?
Ans:  an object is a programming nature that have certain basic characteristics. 

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:  In computer programming, an entry point is where control enters a program or piece of code and execution begins.

Why main is static?
Ans: The main is static because otherwise there would be ambiguity. 

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans: The main difference is methods of a java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations.A java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: 

what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Access Specifier is a key word in object oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans:  OOP is a short form of Object oriented programming. Java OOP features are 
1) Abstraction
2) Inheritance
3) Encapsulation
4) Polymorphism


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: API is application Programming interface. List of API's are _> Array, scanner, linkedList, Scanner,Queue,stack.


Does java support multiple inheritance?
Is a relation ship -No. Has a relationship -Yes

What is method overloading and when it happens?



What is method overriding and when it happens?


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?


What is final, finally and finalize?


What is a constructor ?


What is "this" keyword in java ?


What is "super" keyword in java?


What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: Java Virtual Machine.

What version of java are you using?


What is JAR stand for ?
Ans: Java Archive.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans: 

What is heap?
Ans: Heap is the amount of memory allocated to applications running in the JVM.

How java manage it's memory?
